# 1.1. Identify the Issue and the Conclusion

> **Critical Question**: What are the issue and the conclusion?

Getting straight about the person's issue and conclusion is an essential first step in effective human interaction.
## 1.1. How to Determine the Issue?

> An issue is a question or controversy responsible for the conversation or discussion. It's stimulus for what is being said.

There are two kinds of issues:

- **Descriptive issue**: Issue that raise questions about the accuracy of descriptions of past, present, or future.
- **Prescriptive issue**: Issue that raise questions about what we should do or what is right or wrong, desirable or undesirable, good or bad.

When the issue is **explicitly stated**, the speaker will tell you what it is or that issue may be identified in the body of the text (e.g. At the beginning, the end or the title of the text).

When the issue is **implicitly stated**, it must be inferred from other clues in the communication. To identify the issue, you should do:

- Ask *"What's the author reacting to?"* to get an idea of the central issue of a communication.
- Check for background information about the authors as you try to determine the issue (e.g. Organizations to which the author belongs).
- Find a question that the entire essay or speech is addressing, and that question can be linked to that essay or speech.
- Find the conclusion first before identify the issue if there is no other ways.
## 1.2. How to Determine the Conclusion?

> A conclusion is the message that the speaker or writer wishes you to accept.

The basic structure of persuasive communication or argument is *this* (i.e. Conclusion) because of *that* (i.e. The support for the conclusion) and this structure represents the process of *inference*.

When conclusions are not unclear, you have to infer those conclusions from what you believe the author is trying to prove by the set of ideas which the author has presented.

To identify the conclusion, you should do:

- Look at the beginning, the end or the title of the paragraph.
- Look for indicator words (e.g. *consequently*, *hence*, *points*, *thus*, ...).
- Check the context of the communication and the author's background.
- Ask *"What's the issue?"* because a conclusion is always a response to an issue.
- Ask *"And therefore?"* because an implied conclusion is often left for us to infer from the limited information.
- Skip unimportant parts in essay or speech (e.g. *examples*, *statistics*, *definitions*, *background information*, *evidence*).

> **Note 1**: Claims without any supported statements are just mere opinions, not conclusions.
> 
> **Note 2**: Once you have found the conclusion, use it as the focus of your evaluation.
# 1.2. Identify the Reasons

> **Critical Question**: What are the reasons?

Reasons are beliefs, evidence, metaphors, analogies, and other statements offered to support or justify conclusions. Reason by itself is an isolated idea, it can not reflect a logical relationship.

Reasons provide answers for our human curiosity about why someone makes a particular decision or holds a particular opinion.

Reasons may be either strong or weak, but you will not know until you have asked the question and identified the reasons.

> **Note 1**: You can not determine the worth of a conclusion until you identify the reasons.
> 
> **Note 2**: Focusing on reasons requires us to remain open to and tolerant of views that might differ from our own.
## 1.2.1. How to Identify Reasons?

> Weak reasons create weak reasoning!

The structure of reasoning is *this* (i.e. Conclusion) because of *that* (i.e. Reasons).

There are many different kinds of reasons depending on the kind of issue:

- Statements that present evidence used to support a descriptive conclusion (i.e. Specific information that someone uses to furnish proof for something they are trying to claim to true such as *facts*, *research*, *statistics*, *metaphors*, *analogies*, *personal testimonials*, *examples from real life*,...).
- General, prescriptive statements or descriptive beliefs or principles used to support a prescriptive arguments.

To identify reasons, you should do:

- Force yourselves to pay attention to *fresh* reasons, those that you have not previously considered.
- Look for indicator words (e.g. *as a result of*, *because of the fact that*, *is supported by*, *for the reason that*,...).
- Develop your own organizing procedure for keeping the reasons and conclusions separate and in a logical pattern.
- Try to avoid *reverse logic* or *backward reasoning* (i.e. Reasons are an afterthought, following the selection of your conclusion). Ideally, reasons are the tool by which conclusions are shaped and modified.

> **Note 1**: In especially complicated arguments, it's frequently difficult to keep the structure of conclusion and reasons straight in your mind as you attempt to critically evaluate what you have read.
> 
> **Note 2**: Once you have found the reasons, you need to come back to them again and again as you read or listen further because their quality is crucial to a strong argument.
## 1.2.2. Argument = Reasons + Conclusion

> An argument is a combination of a conclusion and the reasons supporting it.

Argument characteristics:

- Argument's quality varies.
- Argument has a conclusion and reasons.
- Argument has intent (i.e. Convince us to believe certain things or act in certain ways).